Q1:
Runs via q1.py. Call as follows: python q1.py PATHTODIR/WHEREHACKATHON/DOWNLOADSFILELOCATED/
A python script (q1.py) was created that called poretools fastq and piped the data called into a text file. From there, the file was processed
and the number of counts of "fast5" within the file was counted. This gives an accurate number of files within the pass/fail folders,
because "fast5" only appears once per file read in. This was first done to get all counts in the fail folder, using the command:
>poretools fastq --type all path/downloads/fail/
--type all means that both 2D and 1D (template and complement) data are pulled. The counts are saved into a variable. The same is then performed
for the passes folder. Next, the same commands are run again, but for only 2D reads, so "--type all" is replaced by "--type 2D". These values are
also stored. Finally, the data is output, and calculations for fraction of 2D reads in the pass and fail folders are performed (2Dpass/allpass, etc)
and data is output.

All failures: 3364
All passes: 3243
2D failures: 540
2D passes: 1081
Fraction 2D in fails: 0.1605
Fraction 2D in passes: 0.3333


Q6:
Runs via q6.py. Call as follows: python q6.py PATHTODIR/WHEREHACKATHON/DOWNLOADSFILELOCATED/
The script q6.py creates histograms for the data with the pass and fail folders using the following command:
>poretools hist path/downloads/PASSORFAIL/
The fail histogram for 1D data in first created, followed by pass 1D, fail 2D, and pass 2D. After this, histograms are made for all data within the pass and fail folders. The horizontal axis is always read length, while vertical is counts of reads.


Q7:
Runs via q7.py. Call as follows: python q7.py PATHTODIR/WHEREHACKATHON/DOWNLOADSFILELOCATED/
q7.py runs the command:
>poretools winner --type X path/downloads/pass
For each type of read (template, complement, 2D) the previous command is run (replacing X with the shorthand used by poretools for the current read type). The output is then processed, pulling out the name of the file the read is coming from, as well as the number of nucleotides in the read. The results for number of nucleotides were as follows:

Template: 11820
Complement: 11498
2D: 12916
